---
layout: post
title: 'Git学习笔记(7) -- 独立开发者所用的命令(c)'
date: 2009-07-22
wordpress_id: 297
permalink: /blogs/297
comments: true
categories:
- Linux
tags:
- git

---
这次我们看一些实例

Use a tarball as a starting point for a new repository.
<pre class="prettyprint linenums">$ tar zxf frotz.tar.gz
$ cd frotz
$ git init
$ git add . //添加所有文件到index
$ git commit -m "import of frotz source tree."
$ git tag v2.43</pre>
Create a topic branch and develop.
<pre class="prettyprint linenums">$ git checkout -b alsa-audio (1)
$ edit/compile/test
$ git checkout -- curses/ux_audio_oss.c (2)
$ git add curses/ux_audio_alsa.c (3)
$ edit/compile/test
$ git diff HEAD (4)
$ git commit -a -s (5)
$ edit/compile/test
$ git reset --soft HEAD^ (6)
$ edit/compile/test
$ git diff ORIG_HEAD (7)
$ git commit -a -c ORIG_HEAD (8)
$ git checkout master (9)
$ git merge alsa-audio (10)
$ git log --since='3 days ago' (11)
$ git log v2.43.. curses/ (12)</pre>
<ol>
	<li>create a new topic branch.</li>
	<li>revert your botched changes in curses/ux_audio_oss.c.</li>
	<li>you need to tell git if you added a new file; removal and modification will be caught if you do git commit -a later.</li>
	<li>to see what changes you are committing.</li>
	<li>commit everything as you have tested, with your sign-off.</li>
	<li>take the last commit back, keeping what is in the working tree.</li>
	<li>look at the changes since the premature commit we took back.</li>
	<li>redo the commit undone in the previous step, using the message you originally wrote.</li>
	<li>switch to the master branch.</li>
	<li>merge a topic branch into your master branch.</li>
	<li>review commit logs; other forms to limit output can be combined and include --max-count=10 (show 10 commits), --until=2005-12-10, etc.</li>
	<li>view only the changes that touch what's in curses/ directory, since v2.43 tag.</li>
</ol>
